JASON J LEI

2000 Linwood Avenue | Apartment 22Y | Fort Lee, NJ 07024 | (201) 660 – 4292 | 22jasonlei@gmail.com



Education

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

Expected Graduation May 2025

School of Arts and Sciences



Bachelor of Science, Major in Computer Science



New Brunswick, New Jersey



Work Experience

CVS Pharmacy, Leonia NJ

May 2023-Present

  Pharmacy Technician

Engaged with customers and patients, resolving customer issues, typing up patient electronic prescriptions and prescriptions dropped off in-store.

Performed sales on the cash register for both medications and general store products.

Counting, measuring, and filling an average of 50+ prescriptions per shift.

Received telephone calls from patients, doctor offices, and other pharmacies.

Made telephone calls to patients to update or inform about medication ready to be picked up or other instances regarding the medical history of a patient.

Assisted in inventory management activities including ordering, unpacking, and checking in and storing shipments of pharmaceutical products and services.



Walgreens, Fort Lee NJ

May 2021-January 2022

  Pharmacy Technician

Engaged with customers and patients, resolving customer issues and answering any questions regarding products and services available in the store.

Handled and registered sales on the cash register for both medications and general products available.

Filled prescriptions accurately; counting, measuring, weighing medications, and storing them and keeping them ready for customer/patient to pick up.

Handled telephone calls from patients and doctor offices when appropriate and when possible.

Made telephone calls to patients in order to update or inform about medication ready to be picked up or other instances regarding the patient.

Assisted in inventory management activities including ordering, unpacking, checking and storing shipments of pharmaceutical products and services.

Maintained area of pharmacy, making sure all is clean and neat; made sure that proper supplies were ready for distribution to patients and customers. 



Rutgers University – Physics Lecture Hall (Busch Campus)



August 2021-January 2022

  Lab Assistant

Assisted in setting up and constructing lab procedures and demonstrations for professors to use during lecture.

Maintained cleanliness and made sure the Physics Lecture Hall and the lab inside was clean, neat, and organized.

Made sure that the lab was fully stocked up and ready with supplies, materials, and reagents necessary for lecture or class demonstrations.

Set up classroom within the Physics Lecture Hall, this involved adjusting and setting up computer and projectors for use in class, as well as cleaning the general area and erasing any blackboards. 



Skills

Java

CSS

HTML

JavaScript

Python

Data Structures and Algorithms

Language Fluency – English, Mandarin

Mathematical proficiency (good number sense and accuracy)

Microsoft Office – Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Word

Honors & Activities

Fort Lee Marching Band

August 2016-June 2020

 Field Drum Major/Concertmaster/Member

Led and managed the marching band (selected and assigned tasks to other officers and leadership roles). 

Organized and directed members of the band when learning different formations and stage directions during rehearsal.

Worked with other leadership roles, the band director, and other staff.



Fort Lee Track and Field Team (Winter & Spring)

November 2016-June 2020

  Member

3-year Varsity Letter 

3rd Team All-County, 1st Team All-League, 2nd Team All-League 

Set the school’s indoor 4x400 relay record.



Fort Lee Cross Country Team (Fall)

August 2017-November 2019

  Co-captain/Member

Led the team in stretches; organized and took attendance of the members during meets and practice.

3-year Varsity Letter



Community Service

Fort Lee High School

May 2017-May 2019

Performed in annual Memorial Day parade with the Fort Lee Marching Band.





2