TEMPLATE FOR SYLLABUS







DePaul University ~ College of Education

Course Number/Course Title

Academic Quarter/Year 

Meeting Day/Time



Instructor:

Office #:

Office Telephone #:

e-Mail:

Office Hours: (include virtual office hours if online/hybrid course)



Required Readings:

Recommended Readings: (if applicable)





COURSE DESCRIPTION

(use the University Catalog course description found at https://www.depaul.edu/university-catalog/course-descriptions/Pages/default.aspx)





COLLEGE OF EDUCATION MISSION 

The mission of DePaul University's College of Education is to prepare educators, counselors, and leaders who are committed to creating equitable, compassionate, intellectually rich, and socially just environments. As part of a Vincentian university, we cultivate the social conscience, understandings, and practices necessary to address social inequities among and with individuals, communities, and institutions. We develop critical, creative, knowledgeable practitioners and scholars who continually inquire and reflect on educational and professional practices. Through authentic experiences in and outside the classroom and other educational environments we prepare our students to be engaged, service- oriented citizens of local and global communities.





PROGRAM PERFORMANCE STANDARDS 

Both the state and the DePaul College of Education expect you to meet performance standards. Program Standards can be found at https://education.depaul.edu/student-resources/policies-and-forms/Pages/program-standards.aspx



In this course you will be assessed on the following program standard: 

(Instructor should note specific ones for this course which can be found in the chart above). 

In addition, you are expected to meet the Illinois Professional Teaching Standards (IPTS) and related indicators. IPTS and corresponding indicators can be found at https://education.depaul.edu/student-resources/policies-and-forms/Pages/ipts-indicators.aspx.



Competence in these standards will be based on the following objectives and assessed through course assignments described in more detail below. (Instructor should list standards and briefly indicate how each standard will be assessed). 

https://education.depaul.edu/student-resources/policies-and-forms/Pages/ipts-indicators.aspx

(See specific indicators by course listed on the link above)





OBJECTIVES

(Instructor should provide bulleted list of objectives taken from the standards assigned to the course. Instructor can add additional objectives. Objectives should use measurable, action verbs)





METHODS OF INSTRUCTION 

(Explain the methods of instruction that will be used lecture, discussion, small group work, field work, readings, etc. Example:  Class time will be divided into different combinations of the following:  lecture, small and large group discussion, workshops, video analysis, in and out of class assignments, field-based work, and student presentations.)





COURSE ACCESS Course materials are available in Desire2Learn (D2L). Use your DePaul username and password to log in to the D2L home page (http://d2l.depaul.edu). Not having access to a working computer or any other technology-related excuse is not an acceptable reason for failing to submit your work on time. 





COURSE REQUIREMENTS

(list assignments, field work, attendance, participation, professionalism, dispositional expectations)



 Assignments (include description of expectations, points or percentage of grade, and a rubric)



Field Experience (if applicable -Describe field experience requirements if applicable)

During this course, all students are required to complete a minimum of 20 field experience clock hours of Level____ (state whether Level I or Level II) field experience hours in a school setting during school hours.  Field experience requirements, including the required process for field experiences clearance, are listed on the College of Education webpage (see 

https://education.depaul.edu/student-resources/field-experiences/Pages/default.aspx

In order to be placed, students must have completed and dropped in the course D2L Submissions the following: 

the CPS Approval Notice

the Guidelines form

the Mandate Reporter Training Certificate



Based on your field experience, (Instructors, PLEASE ADJUST THIS SECTION TO MATCH YOUR COURSE REQUIREMENTS) you will be required to: 

keep a log

write a Field Experience Report

have the cooperating teacher complete an evaluation



These three field-experience-related documents are due during finals week (see the course schedule section of the syllabus for due date details). 





PROFESSIONALISM

Certain standards of professionalism and courtesy will be expected of you in class (and in clinical settings if necessary.)



Attendance: (Include attendance policy for the course, including absence and tardy penalties) You are expected to attend every class and on time. Call and/or email instructor when something prevents you from attending.  Your commitment and participation in the course contributes to the learning experience of all participants. Avoid absences because you will miss important information that may not be in the readings. In the event that you are absent, it is your responsibility to get information regarding announcements and topics covered from your peers.

	

	If you must miss class for a medical, mental health or personal crisis reason, you can request an absence notification via the Dean of Students Office. The absence notification does not mean that you are excused from course material, assignments or exams. It is ultimately up to me to decide what, if any, accommodation can be provided in light of this absence. It is your responsibility to follow up to inquire about such accommodations. Please refer to the site below for more information on the absence notification process: 

	https://offices.depaul.edu/student-affairs/support-services/academic/Pages/absence-notification.aspx

	

	

	In class: (instructor may add or revise this language) Participate respectfully. Listen and consider other viewpoints.  Do not monopolize discussions.   Maintain collegial tone.  Share ideas.  





DISPOSITIONS

Because the College of Education is primarily made up of professional programs, we take seriously our obligation to provide well prepared students to the professions in which you will be working.  A large part of this preparation involves academic knowledge and skills.  However, the attitudes and conduct (all generally referred to as “dispositions”) that we attempt to develop are equally as important to your professional success.



The dispositions that we expect you to demonstrate are ones that we believe are closely linked to success in your chosen field.  We will look for evidence of these dispositions in your courses, in clinical settings, and in advising sessions.  These dispositions are not at all unusual or difficult to comply with, so we anticipate that the overwhelming majority of students will have no problem demonstrating them.  For any student about whom we have dispositional concerns—to the extent that those concerns raise questions about the student’s ability to complete his/her program or to succeed professionally—we will address those concerns as soon as possible in an effort to achieve the best possible outcome for the student and the college.  The detailed process for addressing such concerns is outlined in the “Student Performance Reviews” document (http://education.depaul.edu/CurrentStudents/Policies_Handbooks/Dispositions.asp).  Our approach is meant to be preemptive and proactive; our desire is to support your development throughout the duration of your academic program.



The academic programs within the College of Education have set forth these dispositions (see below) as educational and professional expectations for all students.  Students should be aware that failing to abide by DePaul University or College of Education policies including, under certain circumstances, these dispositions, could result in adverse consequences for the student, including removal from his or her program, the College of Education, or the University.

(List the program dispositions from our website that correspond to the course you are teaching; if you are unsure, ask the department chair or department assistant.)





ACADEMIC INTEGRITY 

(Some statement regarding Academic Integrity is Required for Inclusion in Syllabus; See end of Template for other suggested sections)

DePaul University is a learning community that fosters the pursuit of knowledge and the transmission of ideas within a context that emphasizes a sense of responsibility for oneself, for others and for society at large. Violations of academic integrity, in any of their forms, are, therefore, detrimental to the values of DePaul, to the students’ own development as responsible members of society, and to the pursuit of knowledge and the transmission of ideas. 



Violations of academic integrity include but are not limited to the following categories: cheating; plagiarism; fabrication; falsification or sabotage of research data; destruction or misuse of the university's academic resources; alteration or falsification of academic records; and academic misconduct.  You should review the university’s Academic Integrity Policy (see the URL below) to be sure that you understand what constitutes a violation.  If I find that you have violated the Academic Integrity Policy, the appropriate initial sanction will be determined by me.  Conduct that is punishable under the Academic Integrity Policy could result in additional disciplinary actions by other university officials and possible civil or criminal prosecution.



More information on the university's Academic Integrity Policy can be found in the Student Handbook (https://offices.depaul.edu/academic-affairs/faculty-resources/teaching/academic-integrity/Pages/default.aspx).



(You may also add a statement like this if you use Turnitin in D2L)

Please be aware that any written work submitted in this course will likely be verified using Turnitin technology in order to ensure that the work is your own creation and not in violation of the Academic Integrity Policy.  Submission of work in this course constitutes your pledge that the work is original and constitutes your consent to have the work submitted to verify that fact.





SPECIAL NEEDS Accommodations (required for syllabus)

*Faculty have the option to include paragraph 1 or paragraph 2

The College of Education is committed to supporting diversity and respect for all persons in the classroom and assisting students to learn in a non-threatening environment. Any student needing special accommodations (extra time on tests, separate room for test taking, laptop for notetaking…) in this course due to a documented disability is asked to bring this to the attention of the instructor at the beginning of the quarter so that needs can be appropriately addressed. Students seeking disability-related accommodations are required to register with DePaul’s Center for Students with Disabilities (CSD) enabling you to access accommodations and support services to assist your success. There are two office locations:

Loop Campus – Lewis Center #1420 – (312) 362-8002

Lincoln Park Campus – Student Center #370 – (773) 325-1677

Students are also invited to contact me privately to discuss challenges/issues and how I may assist in facilitating the accommodations you will use in this course. This is best done early in the term and our conversation will remain confidential.



OR



Students seeking disability-related accommodations are required to register with DePaul's Center for Students with Disabilities (CSD) enabling you to access accommodations and support services to assist your success. There are two office locations:

Loop Campus - Lewis Center #1420 - (312) 362-8002 
Lincoln Park Campus - Student Center #370 - (773) 325-1677

Students can also email the office at csd@depaul.edu

Students who are registered with the Center for Students with Disabilities are also invited to contact me privately to discuss how I may assist in facilitating the accommodations you will use in this course. This is best done early in the term. Our conversation will remain confidential to the extent possible.





GRADING

(Explain grading procedures for determining grades for each assignment and for FINAL COURSE GRADE --How much will each assignment be worth? Are individual assignments weighted?-- and provide grading scale.)



Letter Grades (this is not a mandated scale, feel free to adjust): 

96-100% = A 

92-95% = A- 

88-91% = B+ 

84-87% = B

80-83% = B- 

76-79% = C+ 

72-75% = C 

68-71% = C- 

64-67% = D+ 

60-63% = D 

Below 60% = F 

Standards Assessment: Does Not Meet; Meets; Exceeds 

(see College of Education Rubrics at 

http://education.depaul.edu/html/resources/program_standards.asp ) 





ASSIGNMENT POLICIES

(Explain how students should submit assignments, whether or not you accept late work, etc.)



Submitting Assignments.  Students will submit all written assignments to the Submissions tab in D2L (instructors can also request that students submit a hard copy on the due dates). These assignments will be due as noted on the class schedule. It is recommended that you submit your work during the Technology Contact Center hours (check times online) so you can get help if you need it. Not being able to attach a file or some other technology breakdown, is not an acceptable reason for submitting assignments late. 



Assignments: All students are expected to complete assignments by the due dates and times listed in the syllabus. (Instructors should include late submission and make-up policies (whether make-up or rewrites are allowed or not and if yes what percentage/points will be deducted; whether the instructor will allow late submission of assignments, and if yes, what percentage/points will be deducted). All dates in this syllabus are subject to change as the course progresses. If any changes in the schedule or due dates occur, they will be communicated in class and/or via the D2L course site. It is the student’s responsibility to check for any corrections or changes in the schedule.



COURSE SCHEDULE



Date

Topic

Readings

Assignments Due*

date







Week 1















date







Week 2















date







Week 3















date







Week 4















date







Week 5















date







Week 6















date







Week 7















date







Week 8















date







Week 9















date







Week 10















date







FINALS

















(*If online class, include time, Central Daylight

**If 5-week summer class, adjust accordingly)











SUGGESTIONS FOR FURTHER READING 

(instructor can include a list of suggestions and other resources)



Books 



Journals 



Websites







FOR INSTRUCTORS: OPTIONAL ITEMS TO CONSIDER ADDING (please delete the following section in final syllabus)



 How soon can students expect to hear back from you?  How quickly do you grade assignments? What is the best way to contact you (email, phone, text?)

Suggest that students become familiar with our College of Education Academic Success Center (Director is Nora Murphy nmurphy4@depaul.edu. The tutors will help with writing, math, prep for tests, etc.  Also include a statement about the University Writing Center  http://condor.depaul.edu/writing/locations-and-hours.html#

Could include a statement about using technology devices such as: The use of laptops, tablets, smart phones, smart-watches, etc. are not permitted in our class because of recurring problems with these devices being used for web browsing, reading/responding to email, etc. during class meetings. When classwork requires the use of laptops/tables to access online material, I will ask that you bring them to class and announce when they need to be used.

edTPA resources https://depaul.digication.com/edtpa_/Home/

(Students will have to log in with Campus Connect to access the edTPA resources).  Please include this website and info if you are teaching any course that counts toward licensure.

Technical Assistance 

If you need technical assistance at any time during the course (examples: logging in, submitting assignments, opening documents, sending email, viewing videos, or reporting a problem with D2L/Daylight): 

	Log in to Campus Connection (https://campusconnect.depaul.edu)  

	Click Technology Support Center in the left navigation area.  

	From here, you can “Submit a Case” to the Technology Support Center (TSC) (also called the  “Technology contact Center” or “Help Desk”).  

	Email the TSC directly at tcc@depaul.edu.  

	For urgent problems, you can call the TCC at 312-362-8765  

	Student Technology Resources  Desire2Learn Student Documentation  http://www.itd.depaul.edu/website/Students/trainingmaterials.asp#  

	Desire2Learn Online Tutorials  http://www.itd.depaul.edu/website/students/onlinetraining.asp  



ACADEMIC INTEGRITY POLICY FOR OFF CAMPUS SETTINGS (if applicable)

DePaul University is committed to education that engages its students, faculty, and staff in work in Chicago’s communities. As DePaul representatives to our partner schools and community organizations, we ask that you take seriously your responsibilities to these relationships during field and clinical experiences and internships. The community, School and/or organization is an extension of the DePaul classroom. The University’s Academic Integrity Policy and Code of Student Responsibility as detailed in the DePaul University Student Handbook apply to your interactions with the staff of the schools as well as the community organizations and its clients.



ACADEMIC INTEGRITY FOR RESEARCH (if applicable)

As a student in the College of Education, you will be expected to complete several projects that will require you to interact with and/or collect data from other people -- from students in schools, from teachers, or perhaps from your colleagues in this class. Whenever we gather data from the lives and experiences of other human beings, we must be especially sensitive to the ethical implications of what we are doing. Keep in mind that the information you collect -- whether it is collected orally, in writing, through observation, or through existing records or artifacts -- is research data. We, that is you and I, must make every effort to handle these data professionally and to conduct our research in an ethical manner.

Here are some basic principles to keep in mind when conducting ethical research with human subjects:



	Understand the purpose of the study. You should have a clear conception of the questions you are asking and how the data you are seeking will help you to answer those questions. 

	Choose participants for the study in an appropriate but unbiased manner. Individuals should not be excluded or included for extraneous reasons (such as race, creed, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender, ability, or disability) that are unconnected to the questions you are asking.

	Be clear about the risks, discomforts, or hazards to the participants in the study. Similarly, be clear about the potential benefits of the study, including benefits to the participants. You should be able to balance the risks with the potential benefits.

	Protect the anonymity of all participants at all times.